Different countries have
adopted different approaches
with respect to the regulation
of financial technology.
Peer-to-peer lending
illustrates the wide variety of
regulatory approaches adopted
by different localities.
For example, in
Germany and France,
peer-to-peer platforms
are regulated like banks.
In the United States,
that's not the case because
to be a bank you must
also make deposits.
Regulation falls to the SEC and
these activities are treated
like securities issuances.
Some countries like Japan and
Israel outright prohibit
peer-to-peer lending and
don't allow consumers in
those markets to have access to
these kinds of
new financial technologies.
We're going to talk
a little bit about
approaches to financial
regulation here in
the United States as well
as in other countries and
kind of compare and contrast
a variety of approaches.
Here in the United States,
perhaps motivated
by concerns that
regulation would happen in
a haphazard manner across
a variety of regulatory
agencies rather than in
a consistent way that
provide its sort
of broad faint framework
for the industry.
In 2018, the Office of the
Comptroller of
the Currency, the OCC,
and the US Treasury
announced that they
would begin accepting
applications for
special bank charters,
particularly for FinTechs.
Eligibility for these new OCC
special FinTech charters would be
restricted to financial
technology service providers
who do not take deposits,
otherwise they would just be
regulated as traditional banks,
but otherwise engaged in
the business of
banking, for example,
by lending money to
consumers through
peer-to-peer platforms.
The reaction of
state regulators to
this sort of suggestion
by the OCC for
a national banking charter for
financial technology
providers was
swift and deeply concerned.
In 2017, the Conference of
State Bank Supervisors
sued the OCC
alleging that it lacked
the statutory authority to
charter nondepository financial
technology companies.
The Conference of State Bank
Supervisors was concerned
that the operation of
a federal banking charter with
respect to these
nondepository institutions
would make it impossible
for them to impose
higher standards on
financial technology service
providers who impose
unique risks with respect
to the consumers in
their particular states.
That's sort of
the charitable view of
the concerns that
the State Bank Supervisors had.
Another set of
interpretations is simply
an example of regulatory
turf wars where states
didn't want to provide
the ability to
regulate or restrain
themselves from the ability
to intervene in
these particular financial
technology providers.
Well, of course, there
are problems with
the idea of an OCC
FinTech Charter.
There are, of course,
benefits from creating
a single structure that is
responsible for the regulation of
these new and
emerging industries.
The issues of not having
a single framework
responsible for
regulation are well illustrated
by a series of examples.
Currently, new digital
payments firms or
cryptocurrencies in the
current regulatory environment
are regulated both under
the Federal Banking
Security Act and so have to
register with
the Treasury as well as
gain state licenses
in order to operate.
There is no national consensus
on the ability of
peer-to-peer platforms to operate
in different states
across the country.
LendingClub is able to operate in
more states than prosper
and there are states
where individuals can take
out loans from LendingClub
but not purchase loans and be on
the other side of
these transactions.
These sorts of differences
create opportunities
for regulatory arbitrage
on the behalf
of firms and also create
a set of restrictions
that are very difficult
to comply with from
their perspective of
new and emerging industries
and new and emerging
financial services
providers who would
like some clarity about
what requirements they have
to meet in order to operate
but don't have
the resources to be able
to meet high regulatory burdens
that are differential depending
on the state in which
they seek to do business
or gain new customers.